[![Dockerhub](https://img.shields.io/badge/dockerhub-repo-blue.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/blacksails/mailspree-ui)
# mailspree-ui

Instead of integrating the [mailspree](https://github.com/blacksails/mailspree)
service into your own application, mailspree-ui provides a stand-alone webbased
GUI.

The mailspree service it not included in mailspree-ui, but it depends upon it.
Read more about mailspree in its own repository:
[mailspree](https://github.com/blacksails/mailspree)

## Architecture

Mailspree UI is a react application. It uses redux to provide a highly
predictable state store. It has a small express webserver which serves the app.
The express server will at some point also do initial server side rendering of
the app, which means that the end user will have the initial app rendered
faster.


## Installation

The easiest way to run mailspree-ui is using docker. You can either grab the
latest image from dockerhub
[blacksails/mailspree-ui](https://hub.docker.com/r/blacksails/mailspree-ui), or
build the image from source using the following instructions:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:blacksails/mailspree-ui.git
cd mailspree-ui
npm install
npm run build
docker build -t blacksails/mailspree-ui .
```

When you have the docker image ready, just run it providing the mailspree
service endpoint in the `MAILSPREE_ENDPOINT` environement variable.

```bash
docker run -d --name mailspree-ui --port 80:8080 \
  -e MAILSPREE_ENDPOINT=<Your mailspree endpoint here> \
  blacksails/mailspree-ui
```

Instead of using `docker run` you can save a create an environment varibale
file in the directory, called `mailspree-ui-vars.env`, which contains the
environment variable. See the
[mailspree-ui-vars.env.example](mailspree-ui-vars.env.example) file for an
example. Then run the mailspree-ui container with docker compose.

```base
docker-compose up
```

## Future ideas
Because this webapp is based upon the mailspree service, it currently only
supports the things that the mailspree api makes possible. Read the
[mailspree](https://github.com/blacksails/mailspree) readme for a list of
things that could be added to the service in the future.

There are a few things that could be improved in this app which does not depend
on the backend service. See the issues of this project for some of them.

## Demo

See a demo of the app at [mailspree.io](https://mailspree.io). Login with
username `admin` and password `supersecret`. Please note that the demo uses
free mailgun and sendgrid accounts to send the emails. When these reach their
usage limit, sending email will give errors.

To ensure that your emails get delivered, please use a from address on the
mailspree.io domain. Not doing this can result in deliverability issues due to
SPF and DKIM. Read more about that in the readme of the
[mailspree](https://github.com/blacksails/mailspree) service.

## Acknowledgements
I have only written javascript since 2015. So some of my code might not be that
idiomatic, if that is even a thing in javascript.

I am new to the react eco system. I started looking into react in the spring of
2016, this is my first real project. It is also the first project where i have
included the redux state library.

## Credits

Author: Benjamin NÃ¸rgaard ([blacksails](https://github.com/blacksails))
